Add `lesion-analysis` tutorial (#4586)
spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox: documentation/source/user_section/tutorials/lesion-analysis/lesion-segmentation/lesion-segmentation-ms.rst

Lesion segmentation in multiple sclerosis (MS)
##############################################

SCT provides a deep learning-based algorithm to segment lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS) called ``sct_deepseg_lesion``.

> TODO: consider adding dome details what data was used to train the model, similarly to the SCIseg model (lesion-segmentation-sci.rst)

Reviewer: I think it's good if we stick to this model. However, if we want to showcase multiple models and the new ones to come, we should write something more generic. What is your point of view on this ?

> TODO: consider adding dome details what data was used to train the model, similarly to the SCIseg model (lesion-segmentation-sci.rst)

Author: Agree. Updated in https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4586/commits/c6c11c0e857f05b1c78fbf134685a8bee2e09243

Lesion segmentation in multiple sclerosis (MS)
##############################################

SCT provides several deep learning-based algorithms to segment lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS). Depending on the
image contrast, you can use the following algorithms:

T2w and T2star
**************

> ``sct_deepseg_lesion``: This algorithm was trained on T2w and T2star images. Details: `Gros, C., et al. NeuroImage (2019) <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.09.081>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The algorithm ``sct_deepseg_lesion`` was trained on T2w and T2star images. Details: `Gros, C., et al. NeuroImage (2019) <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.09.081>`_.
```

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spinalcordtoolbox/doc-figures/master/spinalcord-segmentation/sct_deepseg_sc_steps.png
   :align: center
   :figwidth: 60%

You can try ``sct_deepseg_lesion`` on your own T2w or T2star image using the following command:

.. code:: sh

   sct_deepseg_lesion -i t2.nii.gz -c t2

:Input arguments:
   - ``-i`` : Input T2w image
   - ``-c`` : Contrast of the input image

----

STIR and PSIR
*************

> ``sct_deepseg -task seg_sc_ms_lesion_stir_psir``: This algorithm was trained on sagittal STIR and PSIR images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The algorithm ``seg_sc_ms_lesion_stir_psir`` was trained on sagittal STIR and PSIR images.
```

It is a region-based model, outputting a single segmentation image containing 2 classes representing the spinal cord and MS lesions. Details: https://github.com/ivadomed/canproco.

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spinalcordtoolbox/doc-figures/master/lesion-analysis/seg_sc_ms_lesion_stir_psir.gif
   :align: center
   :figwidth: 60%

You can try ``seg_sc_ms_lesion_stir_psir`` on your own STIR or PSIR image using the following command:

.. code:: sh

   sct_deepseg -i psir.nii.gz -task seg_sc_ms_lesion_stir_psir -qc ./qc

:Input arguments:
   - ``-i`` : Input PSIR (or STIR) image
   - ``-task`` : Task to perform. In this case, we use the ``seg_sc_ms_lesion_stir_psir`` model
   - ``-qc`` : Directory for Quality Control reporting. QC reports allow us to evaluate the segmentation slice-by-slice

----

MP2RAGE-UNIT1
*************

> ``sct_deepseg -task seg_ms_lesion_mp2rage``: This algorithm was trained on cropped MP2RAGE-UNIT1 images. Details: `Cohen-Adad, J., et al. Zenodo release (2023) <https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.8376753>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The algorithm ``seg_ms_lesion_mp2rage`` was trained on cropped MP2RAGE-UNIT1 images. Details: `Cohen-Adad, J., et al. Zenodo release (2023) <https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.8376753>`_.
```

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spinalcordtoolbox/doc-figures/master/lesion-analysis/model_seg_ms_mp2rage.png
   :align: center
   :figwidth: 60%

You can try ``seg_ms_lesion_mp2rage`` on your own MP2RAGE UNIT1 image using the following commands.
As the model was trained on cropped images, we recommend cropping the input image before running the segmentation.

.. code:: sh

   sct_deepseg -i IMAGE_UNIT1 -task seg_sc_contrast_agnostic -o IMAGE_seg
   sct_crop_image -i IMAGE_UNIT1 -m IMAGE_seg -dilate 30x30x5
   sct_deepseg -i IMAGE_UNIT1 -task seg_ms_lesion_mp2rage -qc ./qc

:Input arguments:
    - ``-i`` : Input MP2RAGE UNIT1 image
    - ``-task`` : Task to perform. In this case, we use the ``seg_ms_lesion_mp2rage`` model
    - ``-qc`` : Directory for Quality Control reporting. QC reports allow us to evaluate the segmentation slice-by-slice

> ----
> 
> .. note::
> 
>    The ``sct_deepseg_lesion`` and ``sct_deepseg -task seg_ms_lesion_mp2rage`` algorithms segment only the MS lesion(s).
>    You can use the contrast-agnostic model (``sct_deepseg -task seg_sc_contrast_agnostic``) or ``sct_deepseg_sc`` to segment the spinal cord.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
